# Personal-Statement
My Personal Statement, displaying my interest for Software Development, and other crucial traits about me.


In recent months, the use of modern software used by organisations has skyrocketed, which is why it’s so crucial that we stay on top of new technological trends. Software Development is what I aspire to dedicate myself to, and I am so excited to gain an extensive understanding of the subject, and to learn and work with industry professionals on compelling projects that have great impacts.

The problem solving aspects of Maths and Physics have influenced my decision to undertake Software Development, and are the most rewarding and exciting aspects to me of both front-end and back-end development. To gain a more extensive understanding of not only various front and back end programming languages, but also mathematical concepts and logic, I have invested some time to read about my favourite languages. My favourite book is Eloquent Javascript, because after each session of reading, I'd go and practise what I had learnt, and it made me feel proud of both my syntactical progress and knowledge gained. The things I learnt that I value the most are sensible code structure and how to use methods in almost everything I write. 

I mostly pride myself on my effective problem solving and logical thinking. Functions in maths work exactly the same as those in programming, reminding me that behind the keywords of high level programming languages are complex mathematical models and functions, and the way of thinking in Physics allows me to look at problems and recognise multiple ways of approaching them, along with assessing their effectiveness and worthwhileness beforehand. I have also developed leadership skills through my climbing sessions, leading warmups and guiding younger students through their NICAS climbing qualifications.

My very first project was a web application designed for taking orders and receiving (pretend) payments at restaurants, available on my GitHub. I didn’t realise how many mistakes and bad practices I would commit throughout this project, but due to the rigorous process of building the application (and poor design), I learnt and wrote down so many things which helped me persevere extensively. This project was my first real insight into proper programming, and I was exhilarated to carry on due to its logical, mathematical and extremely fun nature. As of now, I am learning different Javascript frameworks and backend development in preparation for some more ambitious projects.

Regarding work, I participated in an experience in an office in the heart of Soho involved in developing Web Applications to manage HR. As part of this, I networked with a senior Web Developer who built their MIS, who I was completely fascinated by as he talked about what happens when requests are made to the database. I learnt all about the use of PHP and Javascript in his application, but what was most intriguing was that he decided to do it alone, emphasising the importance of writing logical, maintainable code.

 I have a passion for language learning as not only is it an extremely versatile skill to have in the real world, but I am also applying my knowledge of Spanish to teach myself Portuguese, which is proving extremely helpful given its similarities to Spanish. At my part-time job at Warner Brothers Studios, I find that every week I am helping and interacting with Spanish-speaking tourists who don’t speak English, which I like to think is constantly improving my communication skills. With my strong ability to acquire languages, I feel that I can apply this transferable skill when learning programming languages, which I've found helps me learn different languages and frameworks quickly in the world of Software Development.

The limits are endless when programming, and I cannot wait to see what I can do once I am well-equipped with the skills I need to build successful and effective software.
